In 2008, Capcom rebooted the Bionic Commando franchise with two remarkably disparate approaches. 
 
 On one end of the spectrum was the third-person action retail title, Bionic Commando , which found ex-Faith No More singer Mike Patton growling profanities and tossing cars at enemy soldiers. On the other was Bionic Commando Rearmed , a digital download title that title that adhered closer to the original game’s formula. The former was met with mediocre reviews and poor sales, and the latter praised for its old-school sensibilities and slick nods to its source material. 
 
 Rearmed proved to be successful enough to warrant a sequel, one that relies less on clinging to the past, and more on opening up Bionic Commando’ s basic gameplay mechanics with more “new school” gameplay design choices. Rearmed 2 also features a slew of other additions that on paper, make it sound like a superior game to the original. As it turns out, it’s a solid game, but one that’s slightly outclassed by its predecessor.
Bionic Commando Rearmed 2 (Xbox Live Arcade, PlayStation Network) 
 Developer: Fatshark 
 Publisher: Capcom 
 Release date: February 1 (PSN), February 2 (XBLA) 
 PRice: $14.99 (PSN), 1200 MS Points (XBLA)
With the original Rearmed , developer GRIN did its best to update the  original Bionic Commando formula just enough to not step on any toes.  That meant was a complete graphical overhaul, yet one that stayed  stylistically close to the original. It also meant the firm decision to  make sure that the game’s protagonist Nathan Spencer would only leave  the ground if his bionic arm and swinging is involved. 
  
 In the sequel, the game’s developer FatShark (made up of many former  ex-GRIN staffers) takes a literal leap forward, adding a jump button to  the mix. Along with a few other tweaks, this simple addition gives  Rearmed 2 a more “modern” feel, with faster and looser controls. Not  only can Nathan jump, but he’s not longer confused at the sight of small  ledges and can now climb over small objects. 
  
 The bionic arm, of course, makes its return and is indispensable as  always. Combined with the jump, small tweaks to the hook controls make  it instantly more accessible than the original. Interestingly, most of  the game’s levels are designed to be complete without using the jump  button if you so choose. There’s no way to disable it within the game  options that I could see, so this is entirely up to the player to avoid  that pesky jump button. Rearmed 2 does keep track of this achievement  for every level, so this is definitely a nice little nod to the purists.  For everyone else, that jump button will be a welcome addition in some  of the game’s trickier platforming areas.

  
 Also new for Rearmed 2 are a bunch of new weapons and upgrades, many of  them passive abilities, like one that will slowly regain Nathan’s  health. While these additions give the appearance of a more rounded,  richer experience, that’s not entirely the case. It’s nice to have these  additional weapons in your arsenal, but you’re rarely forced to use  them in combat. Mostly, you’ll find that you’ll need them simply to  trigger things in the environment, and many times not even on mission  critical paths. The game’s stock “pew pew pew” pistol served me well  from beginning to end, with its unlimited ammo and rapid fire response  time to my button presses. 
  
 Part of the uselessness of some of these weapons comes down to the  game’s enemies, of which there really aren’t that many. Less than  halfway through the game, you’ve likely encountered them all. There’s  the Roomba-looking robot that strolls around on platforms, and then  there’s his cousin that kind of looks like him but has spikes and  occasionally fires bullets at you. There are also you standard soldiers,  along with a few other robotic pests that try to make your life  miserable. Very few of them, however, require tactics that demand the  use of your varied arsenal or even your bionic arm. It is a bit  disappointing that FatShark made what seems like a great decision to  give the players more tools, yet squandered the opportunity to use them  for truly unique gameplay situations. 
  
  Rearmed 2 does mix things up a bit with some sniper and helicopter  sections, where the player controls a large on-screen reticle to either  pick off enemies or rain down a hell of bullets. While both are fun  diversions from the jumping and swinging, they’re relatively mindless  affairs in almost all cases. Massive bosses are also scattered throughout  the game’s levels, each with their own patterns and weaknesses. It’s a bit  disappointing that you’ll have to face the same bosses more than once,  though, some of them with near-identical patterns used to defeat them each time.  While some of them can certainly provide some competition, it has to be  said that they aren’t quite up to par with the bosses in the first game,  which made better use of the game’s bionic arm and limited weapon set.

  
 The game also ditches the choose-your-own-path style progression from  the first game, instead opting for a more linear experience.  Fortunately, there’s plenty of reasons to go back and play levels. On  your first playthrough you’ll find yourself passing up plenty of items  you can see and are inaccessible; as you earn certain items or upgrades,  you can then go back and snatch up what you you missed. The game offers  up plenty of variables for each of its level, from hidden items to keeping  time, so gamers who are all about squeezing everything out of a game  will certainly have plenty to squeeze with Rearmed 2 . Cooperative  gameplay and even the “Challenge Rooms,” which are as balls-out  difficult and addictive as ever (with full leaderboard support) are  back. 
  
 Fans of the Rearmed will find there’s a lot to love about the follow up,  despite a few shortcomings. Because it’s ultimately not as impressive  as the original, that doesn’t mean Bionic Commando Rearmed 2 ’s not worth  checking out.