There is a trend with a lot of modern puzzle games and platformers to have hectic gameplay, and to punch you in the balls while you play. This might seem awful to some, but most gamers gladly accept this extra challenge.
The feeling of beating something that is insanely hard is extremely satisfying. Super Meat Boy is a recent success that brutally murdered you and then laughed at you. Blocks That Matter also follows this trend with perfection, and it is a delightful exercise in how to enjoy masochism.

Blocks That Matter  (Windows [reviewed], Xbox 360, Mac, Linux) 
 Developer: Swing Swing Submarine 
 Publisher: Swing Swing Submarine 
 Released: August 19, 2011 
 MSRP: $4.99 (Windows, Mac, Linux), 240 Microsoft Points (Xbox 360) 

Blocks That Matter is a 2D platformer with adorable graphics, tight  controls, and a fantastic soundtrack. It doesn't start off hard. It  eases you into the mechanics slowly and carefully. It's all  really simple: You are a tiny robot who must collect blocks, and  then use those blocks to build things. Different blocks have varying  characteristics: sand will always fall down, wood can burn, and you  can't drill through obsidian. 
 
 At first, you can only collect  certain block types, and you'll be able to drill more for collection as  you progress through the story. Once collected, you have to place blocks  four at a time, which can make progressing tough. You might have to  destroy some of what you just built so you can reuse those blocks later. 
 
 It's  a beautiful hybrid of elements from Tetris , Minecraft , and Super Meat  Boy , all blended together with perfect indie charm. While those might  sound like weird games to combine, after playing it for five minutes  you'll definitely spot the resemblances. It's all done in a way that  doesn't make it feel like a clone, but rather an homage to those great titles.

It's mostly platforming, and you can collect blocks by  drilling them. At any point, you can pause the game and enter a building  mode, and anything you create will appear instantly after you unpause. The first half of the game is rather slow-paced, and you can  take as long as you want. Later on, you'll be running from flaming  creatures, and jumping on blocks that collapse if you stand on them.  Sometimes, you might have to jump into the air, and then build something  to land on. 
 
 It's not really story driven, but it's written  better than most games, and you'll find yourself liking the few  characters that the game has. You were created by a couple of indie game  developers, Markus and Alexey. They were just kidnapped by a mysterious  person known only as "The Boss," and it's up to you to save them. The  two indie devs are based on Markus Persson and  Alexey Pajitnov, the creators of Minecraft and Tetris , respectively. 
 
 The story mode lasts for  about seven hours, and you can replay all of the levels to earn stars  for completing it more efficiently, and each level has a collectible  block that you can find. These blocks are from famous block-based games  like Boulder Dash and other familiar titles. Once you're done with the  story, there are also bonus levels that you can play, which are extra  challenging. 
 

I found myself yelling at my screen in frustration,  crying for mercy, and the entire time the game would not let me give up.  The solution was always right there in front of me, dangled like a  delicious carrot. It's a difficult game, but not impossible. If you  crave an insane challenge, there's plenty of bonus content to test your  nerve. 
 
 For five bucks on Steam, this is a hard one to pass up if  you like puzzle games. I had a ball playing it, and seven hours passed  without me noticing. I recommend Blocks That Matter to fans of blocks, and just  about anyone who loves indie games.