LucasArts or Sierra: You could like both, but, more often than not, people tended to prefer one over the other in the golden age of adventure games. Though King’s Quest VI was my introduction to the genre (and the Windows operating system it was bundled with), Maniac Mansion , The Secret of Monkey Island series, and Full Throttle were the games I obsessed over and showed to visiting friends at any opportunity.
Daedalic Entertainment began as an interesting experiment but has quickly become one of the most recognizable names in modern adventure games, releasing The Dark Eye: Chains of Satinav nearly a month ago and cult favorite The Whispered World a while before that. Its recent titles dealt with heavy subject matter and dark fantasy worlds that feel closer to Sierra’s flagship series. Yet, Daedalic got its start with silly, colorful games that imitated LucasArts. Deponia is the developer’s return to this style of adventure.
Although it doesn’t hold up to LucasArt’s best, Deponia is a reminder of why some of us loved those games so much more than their contemporaries.
jEmbed JS API   VIDEO PLAYER 
Deponia (PC) 
 Developer: Daedalic Entertainment 
 Publisher: Daedalic Entertainment, Lace Mamba 
 Released: August 7, 2012 
 MRSP: $19.99
Deponia smells like garbage, because it’s a planet made of garbage. Its  citizens have made this supposedly uninhabitable junkyard of a planet  into their home. Everyone except Rufus. Deponia to him is nothing more  than the planet that his father abandoned him on. Now, he wants to  return to his birthplace far away in the sky.
Deponia (the game) is a lot of things: It’s an adventure, romance, and  comedy all wrapped up into one goofy story. Rufus is a confident dope  who bears much in common with Secret of Monkey Island ’s Guybrush  Threepwood. While his ambitions are a bit less, he possesses a similar  wit and cluelessness in any given situation. He describes himself as “a  cool version of herpes” but his friends and neighbors on Deponia would  leave out the cool part. Though he is sympathetic, it took me some time  to become attached to him. The same can be said about the game as a  whole.

 
Deponia has a lot more in common with Secret of Monkey Island than just  sharing a similar lead character. Everything from the dialog to the  comically-driven puzzles recalls LucasArts’s classic. As a result, Deponia doesn’t feel all that fresh. It doesn’t help that the game has  serious problems with pacing and puzzle design in its first act (the  lengthiest of the three). Things are slow-going at first. The  game soon gives you a lot of ground to cover in a large city hub, but you’ll  run into some obtuse puzzles that won’t make much more sense once you  stumble upon the solution. The logic behind some puzzles relies too  heavily on a comedic mindset rather than that of a sensible human being.
LucasArts perfected their craft over the years, learning when to leave  comedy out of the picture for playability. Deponia isn’t quite so  discerning in its use of comedy nor is its comedic chops quite as  cutting. The game prolongs dialog with bad joke after bad joke, at  times. I can appreciate the spirit but I expect an adventure game to be  more sparing in its humor. When every dialog option with a character  doesn’t tell me anything about the game’s plot or characters, I start to  become disinterested. I can’t stress enough though that these problems  are mostly restricted to the first act. Even the comedy becomes stronger  in the following acts -- it’s a very odd thing that makes me wonder  what the production process was like behind the game.

Rufus’ life becomes complicated once his plans to escape Deponia end up  with him becoming responsible for a girl named Goal. He accidentally  incapacitates her and decides to find a way to make her regain  consciousness, hoping that she’ll help bring him back to his father’s  home planet. While Rufus has some depth, he is a self-serving character  that is hard to root for until the game’s second half. The main reason  the first half sags, however, is that Deponia is kind of a miserable  place. Rufus’ neighbors, ex-girlfriend, and even his best friend are all  mean to Rufus and not very interesting characters.
Despite Deponia being a rather nasty place, it's brought to life  through a gorgeous hand-drawn aesthetic that recalls Curse of Monkey  Island . The animation is very sub-par, with characters and backgrounds  barely moving, but the design and art of the game’s locales are  consistently interesting and eye-catching. Though the game is nice to  look at, the dull animation is a constant reminder that this is  developed by an indie with a modest budget. The same can be said of the  English version’s hit-and-miss voice cast -- the game was originally  voiced in German but there is no option to change to it. Thankfully  Rufus sounds good and there are some quality performances later in the  game, but it’s not top-caliber stuff. The grating voice effect on the  game’s stormtrooper-esque Organon troopers is another chink in the  game’s presentation.

Despite a poor beginning and ending, I can’t shake off the warm feeling Deponia left me with. It’s a game with a big heart and some clever  puzzles that recall a special time in the history of adventure games. The game lacks the consistency, quality animation, and hilarity  of Tim Schafer and Ron Gilbert’s work, but Deponia is a charming and  creative adventure that stands above many of its contemporaries. You can  deduce the game to being a tribute to the golden years of LucasArts,  but isn’t that exactly what so many want right now?