The PSP, along with the DS, has sort of been a last haven for  Japanese  RPGs. Companies like Atlus, XSEED, and Aksys Games have kept  these  handhelds, as well as the abovementioned genre, alive by  continuing to  feed American gamers with some its best experiences --  even in the wake  of their demise. 
  
 Nintendo has moved on to  the 3DS, and Sony's portable powerhouse, the  Vita, is only a few short  months away. It's an exciting time for gaming  on-the-go, but as the  anticipation climaxes, it doesn't mean we should  forget about the  systems that are still here; still breathing. Aksys  Games hasn't  forgotten and Fate/EXTRA , their latest endeavor, is an  example of how these systems continue to pump out worthwhile experiences.

Fate/EXTRA (PlayStation Portable) 
 Developer: Type-Moon, ImageEpoch 
 Publisher: Aksys Games 
 Release date: November 1, 2011 
 MSRP: $29.99, ($39.99 Limited Edition) 
 
 The Fate universe has had a somewhat limited existence in the U.S. Personally, my familiarity extends to having watched the Fate/stay night anime series (which ironically enough is based off its visual novel) and casually knowing of the PSP fighter: Fate/unlimited codes .  I thoroughly enjoyed the anime though, so the idea of playing a Fate  influenced RPG, set in parallel universe from Image-Epoch no less,  quickly intrigued me. 
 
 The world of Fate/EXTRA opens up  amongst the confines of Tsukumihara Academy -- which serves as the games  main hub. As a student, you attend class, converse with students, and  even investigate (as a school reporter) rumors pertaining to the strange  supernatural occurrences that have been happening on campus. It's in  this introduction -- which is quite long --  that the realization is  made that this game is more than your typical RPG and in fact, at times,  actually more like a visual novel. Then again, from the warning message  that proceeds the beginning of the game -- alerting players about the  potential of dead ends -- I should have been ready for that twist.

Because of its ties to its visual novel past , Fate/EXTRA is a very text heavy endeavor. While the Japanese audio is left in (voiced by many of the original Fate/stay night 's  performers) not all of the dialog in the game is spoken. Luckily the  game benefits from having one of the best written localizations I have  read in quite some time -- which makes the semi-lethargic pace of the  introduction tolerable. It's a strange and bewildering ride into the  game's main narrative, but once the opening events unfold and set up the  proceedings for the next Holy Grail War, Fate/EXTRA begins to  shine as a unique RPG experience for the PSP. There's a very Persona  3-light feeling given off at first (in terms of aesthetics and some  mechanics) but as the hours begin to melt away it becomes ever apparent  that this is a beast all of its own.
Once the intro is complete,  players will be given the chance to chose one of three different  servants to use through the games adventure: Saber, Archer, and Caster  as well as decide the protagonists gender. The Saber class is your  typical up-close melee fighter, the Archer is best for ranged combat,  and the Caster is best with magical abilities. I went with Saber in my  play through -- as I wanted to make my experience as close to the anime  as possible -- but choosing any of the other classes not only affects  the games difficulty, but also the way the story unfolds. With each  servant housing their own unique personality, I really appreciate the  fact that not every player will experience the same journey to the end.

As the main narrative unfolds, you find yourself in a strange virtual  world -- identically resembling Tsukumihara Academy -- and as part of  the Holy Grail War. A tournament, to the death, for the fabled artifact  of legend that will grant the winner their deepest desire. With no  recollection of your past, winning the tournament is a must as failure  results in death in the real world. It's a simple motivation to compel  one to fight, but eventually the desire to know oneself -- a brilliant  dissection of the human psyche by the writers of Fate/EXTRA -- serves as ample incentive to press on, even when the combat begins to fall mundane. 
 
 For  the most part though the battle system is as much fun as it is a test  of mental capacity. Each round, a new opponent is selected, and a week's  preparation time is given before the fight. Preparation for each battle  unfolds in two ways: gaining strength in the arena by fighting enemies;  and by collecting tactical data on the opponent to figure out their  true identity. If you are familiar with the Fate franchise, then you  will know that every enemy servant in the series is actually a famous  warrior -- real or mythological -- and thus contains the weaknesses of  that person. This is definitely Fate/EXTRA 's strong point, as  the process of collecting data on each servant further showcases the  excellent localization and helps move the story forward.

Acquiring as much information, as possible, may be the single most  important aspect for a servant battle. The more one knows, the easier  their attacks are to predict with the game's very simple  rock-paper-scissor battle system. There are three basic moves: attack,  block, and break ;which when planned accordingly will counter an enemy's  move and negate any possible damage received. Outside of the servant  battles, regular enemy fights move quite quickly once a foe's pattern is  discovered. Combat is very enjoyable in Fate/Extra , but with  only one character in your party and a very limited amount of  adversaries per arena, they can become slightly tedious overtime.  Thankfully, battles are not random -- allowing them to be dodged with a  little skill -- but when you're making your third of fourth trip through  an arena that looks practically identical to the last one, the game can  begin to drag. 
 
 Unfortunately, a slow pace is Fate/EXTRA 's  biggest problem. While the game has a very eclectic and well written  cast of characters, it finds itself basically repeating the same process  over and over through the tournament: receive a new opponent, fight and  level up in the arena, and collect enough information to have the  tactical advantage. While some servants mix up the way you progress  through the arena (setting poison traps or having treasure hunt  missions) it all begins to feel the same after around the fourth round  of competition, which is a shame considering how interesting the  narrative is.

Visually though, the game looks very sharp. The characters models and  art all look strikingly accurate and really capture the games anime  essence, especially in combat. In fact combat, has some of the best  looking visuals I've seen in a PSP game. Sadly the environments -- the  arena and Tsukumihara Academy -- are fairly plain and devoid of any real  presence. Fate/EXTRA 's music is enjoyable, for the most part,  but with the story revolving around the same few areas, the music finds  itself essentially on repeat. It fits well, but like the rest of the  game will make you feel like Bill Murray in Ground Hog's Day . 
 
 Aksys Games nailed the localization with Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors and they've done it again with the excellent writing in Fate/EXTRA .  Unfortunately, a sea of monotony and repetitiveness plagues the game's  potential for being one of the PSP's elite RPG's. While mechanically a  solid experience from start to finish, it's a hard pill to swallow for  anyone other than fans of the property or those looking for a little  visual novel in their RPG. Regardless, if you are seeking an adventure  that brings a little more to the table in the story department and don't  mind the trek through 40 plus hours of gameplay, Fate/Extra , in the end, might just be what you are looking for.