Earlier this year, when Epic Games revealed Epic Citadel -- a tech demo for its Unreal Engine running on Apple’s mobile iOS -- heads turned. It was a technically impressive piece of software, demonstrating some truly incredible visuals on Apple’s mobile devices. 
 
 It’s certainly a hell of a hook, enough to get the folks at Cupertino flaunting the software every chance it got, but gorgeous visuals don’t make a great game. Fortunately, the first iOS title to utilize the Unreal Engine, Chair Entertainment’s action-RPG Infinity Blade , has the gameplay chops to match.

Infinity Blade (iPhone, iPod, iPad [Reviewed]) 
 Developer: Chair 
 Publisher: Epic Games 
 Released: December 9, 2010 
 Price: $5.99
Infinity Blade puts players in the role of an unnamed knight determined  with besting the ominous and powerful God-King, a mysterious emperor  that evidently sits on a throne all day waiting for warriors to  challenge his dominion. Okay, make that “knights,” plural -- Infinity  Blade’s “story” (if you could call it that) unfolds across the span of  hundreds of years, with players working through “Bloodlines.” As the  game begins, you’ll step into the armor of a low level fighter, working  your way from the gates of the castle to the throne room, besting guards  -- warriors, assassins, massive trolls -- in the process. 
  
 Your first fight with the God-King will end in  your execution -- you  simply aren’t equipped to conquer the formidable monarch. At this  point, the game will fast forward some 20 years ahead, where you’ll  begin the next “Bloodline” as the son of the fallen warrior, determined  to exact retribution for your father’s death. This second time you will  fail, as you will the third, fourth… you get the idea. 
  
  Infinity Blade is a game that’s all about character progression, as your  stats and armor will carry over from bloodline to bloodline as you  repeatedly try to crush the seemingly unstoppable king. Within the first  20 minutes, you’ll have essentially seen everything the game has to  offer to you in terms of what you’ll be doing and in what order you’ll  be doing it. Fortunately, Chair has built an enjoyable, addictive  gameplay mechanics into Infinity Blade . Married with the role-playing  game-like character development, Infinity Blade manages to sidestep what  could have been a monotonous catastrophe.

  
 Unlike the Epic Citadel demo, movement throughout the God-King’s fortress is  extremely limited. Points appear on the screen indicate where you can  move, and simply tapping the screen will take you in that direction. You  can look around freely, finding out-of-sight loot, but that’s as much  freedom as you're given. While much of the loot (in the form of sacks of  coins or item-carrying treasure chests) is mostly randomized throughout  each bloodline, the movement through the citadel isn't really. After a few  plays, where you’ll go and your movement choices become second nature.  As you move through the environment, you’ll invariably be met with enemy  resistance, and that’s when the real meat of Infinity Blade rears its  head -- the combat. 
  
 Battle can easily be described as a more freeform version of Nintendo’s Punch-Out!! . You’ll tap the sides of the game screen to dodge left or  right, or hold an on-screen shield icon to block incoming attacks.  Slashing with your weapon is done with the swipe of a finger, the  direction of which will result in a different angle of attack. If your  first inclination is the swipe wildly on the screen, don’t bother, as  enemies will simply block your attacks. Instead, it’s about finding  patterns, swiping when there’s an opening, or even matching timing and  slash directions to successfully parry an attack. 
  
 Unlike Punch-Out!! , however, the characters you’ll encounter don’t hold  to the same kind of patterns as Nintendo’s pugilists. The characters  you’ll face are each unique in their own ways, be it in their armor or  weapon of choice, but Infinity Blade doesn’t have its Bald Bull.  Instead, you’ll be faced with “classes” of characters, each which have  their own attack approaches, strengths, and weaknesses. For example, the  larger troll-like characters tend to be slower and more powerful.  Instead of mirroring Punch-Out!! ’s puzzle-like pattern battles, you’ll  have to reply more on quick thinking and reflexes as opposed to  memorization.

While the combat isn’t particular deep, it is extremely satisfying,  thanks to extensive player progression and items. As you complete  battles you’ll win experience points, and as you level up you can  increase various skills, like strength or speed. You’ll also be able to  find and equip a substantial amount of unique armor and weapons which  you can “master” in the game through usage. Some items will even grant  you with magic abilities, which can be activated and cast by drawing a  symbol on the screen with your finger. Because battles are designed to  be quick, punch experiences, leveling up and earning news items becomes  almost like a drug; it’s easy to get wrapped up in an addictive “just  one more battle” rhythm. 
  
 It doesn’t make that much sense to harp on how wonderful Infinity Blade looks, because that much is obvious. It’s some jaw-dropping stuff, for sure. View the screenshots  scattered about this review and know that your eyes are not playing  tricks on you -- the Unreal Engine is doing this on your iDevice, and it  isn’t even breaking a sweat. If you’re looking for a game to rub in the  faces of your Android, Blackberry, and Windows Phone 7 owning buddies,  look no further than Infinity Blade . 
  
 Thankfully, Infinity Blade doesn’t rest on its good looks. Sure, it’s not a  massive, open-world, but instead a tightly guided series of intense battles  coupled with some seriously addictive character progression. As a  showpiece for the power of your iDevice, Infinity Blade is a no-brainer.  Bonus: despite its repetitive nature, there’s a great game under the hood, one that's easy to recommend.