Every game these days needs its gimmick.
If you had to point to Nail’d ’s, it would be that the game is fast. Really, really, really fast.
Really.
Nail'd (PC, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360) 
 Developer: Techland 
 Publisher: Deep Silver 
 Releases date: November 30, 2010 
 Price: $49.99
In an arcade-style ATV/MTX racer the sense of speed is always key, and the high velocity of Nail’d was a given from the outset. But more than any other game I’ve played,  the degree to which Techland has pushed speeds is remarkable: once you hit your racing stride, the game’s environments  breeze by at a blistering pace, and the screen seems to bend around the  player as the vehicle hurtles towards the finish line. Impressively, the  game’s engine manages to keep up with the momentum just fine, with a  steady and smooth frame rate at all times.
This works both for and against Nail’d ’s. As you can  imagine, the startling speeds are like a shot of adrenaline right into  your veins. But then there’s the different matter of making sure you’re not  crashing headfirst into trees, the side of a mountain, or that sign  warning you to make a turn that you simply didn’t have enough time to  see. In Nail’d , you'll likely crash a lot, but these crashes are never frustrating, as the game quickly gets you  right back on track, speeding down a dirt trail at a million miles  per hour before you can blink. It’s almost as if Techland anticipated  these frequent collisions, simply building them into the game, as you’re  rarely punished for making a wrong turn (or in many cases, not making a  turn at all).

 
 The  game also does its best to keep you on the right track and will try to  quickly reset you if you’ve gone off the beaten path. When this works,  it’s a godsend -- you’ll see that you’ve made a wrong turn, and instead  of wasting time correcting it (and slowing you down), the game does it  for you. In other cases, it’s a hindrance, as the game sometimes make  questionable choices in terms of resetting the player’s position. On  more than a few occasions I had barely moved off the track when the game  decided it needed to stop me in my tracks. This was particularly  frustrating when coming off of a jump and preparing to land on a path,  knowing I'd make it but having the game completely disagree. 
 
 Still, it’s not uncommon to wreck a dozen times in a race event yet still finish in first place. Nail’d features a brake, but it’s just a formality; jam on the  gas and hit the turbo button when you’ve got it and you’ll do just fine. 
 
 With that in mind, playing Nail’d is a pretty  straightforward affair, highly accessible while still remaining a blast  to play thanks to some fun, roller coaster-style tracks. The game’s  environments are loosely based on real world locations, loosely being  the key word; there are plenty of surreal twists and turns thrown in for  good fun, and no lack of air to be had as you’ll launch your vehicle  off of ramps. As you become more accustomed to the tracks, you can also  keep your eyes peeled for alternate routes, some of which can shave  seconds off your overall time or lead to a cache of boost-replenishing  fire gates and hoops.

 
 Physics  are also tossed completely out the window on this one: the laws of motion now include the  ability to navigate left and right mid-air. Vehicles can be slightly  customized with new parts that are unlocked as you progress through the  game’s tournaments, but swapping out parts rarely seemed necessary. If  there was any change in how a vehicle handled after I changed tires or  an exhaust, it was completely lost due to the game’s blinding speed. If  you’re looking for a deeper experience with various vehicles and  components to tweak, Nail’d is not your game; if you just want to start moving as fast as possible, as soon as  possible, Techland’s got you covered. 
 
 You probably already get the impression that Nail’d is a no frills affair, and you’d be spot on. It’s almost entirely about  going fast, and as I mentioned earlier, you will literally never have  to take your finger off the gas once you get started. The game does  weave “trick events” into its main “Tournament” modes, but that’s a bit  deceiving. Nail’d 's idea of tricks is mostly limited to smooth landings  from jumps, whizzing through flaming hoops/goal posts, and the  occasional wheelie. You won’t be hopping on your handlebars mid-jump,  and you can’t even do a cookie-cutter flip.
This lack of any  mechanic beyond “go really fast, don’t stop!” plays to the game’s  biggest strengths -- its simplicity. While some might see this lack of  depth unfortunate, it is truly one of the things that makes Nail’d feel so refreshing. It’s an undemanding game, one that solely seems to  exist for the benefit of getting the player’s heart pounding. Because of  this, playing Nail ’d is a somewhat cathartic experience,  where keeping track of stats and worrying about precision takes a back  seat to pure thrills.

 
 This isn’t to say Nail’d doesn’t provide a lot for the player to do. You’re looking at 14  different tracks (the finest of which are unlocked later in the  game), and if you pick up the game new, you’re looking at another four  tracks and new cup for tournament mode by way of free downloadable  content. That also includes a new mode, “Detonator,” which incorporates  time bombs into standard races; you can imagine how that plays out. Nail’d also features support for 14 players online (including support  for leagues), as well as a unique leaderboard system that will rank you  based on your location. (This is something you set manually when you  begin; unfortunately you can’t change this once you set it, so please  don’t consider moving across the country.) 
 
 For some, Nail’d simply being the fastest damned game on the market won’t be enough to  sell them on picking up the controller and giving it a go. That’s  understandable, as there are deeper and more polished experiences in both the simulation and arcade categories. But despite its  lack of any real innovation or complexity, Nail’d succeeds in  being one of the most approachable and entertaining racers of the year.  Just temper your expectations accordingly, hit the gas and ignore the  brakes, and you’ll have one hell of a ride.