I picked up my first guitar when I was in elementary school, and I asked my father -- an amateur guitarist who strummed along along to David Bowie vinyl records for fun -- to teach me a basic chord. It wasn’t 15 minutes before my whining began: my fingers were too small, the strings were too tough... the human hand doesn’t stretch like that, I complained. 
 
 Long story short: I decided I was fine listening to Black Sabbath’s “Paranoid” while playing Metroid ; I didn’t need to be playing Black Sabbath’s “Paranoid” while listening to Black Sabbath’s “Paranoid.”

A few years later, I picked up the six-string again on my own. What  followed was years of me finding my own way, listening to music  carefully and figuring out what I was doing on my own. With an  experienced teacher at your side, learning an instrument can be a  frustrating, even dull process. You can imagine what it's like going in  blind, learning the language of the instrument on your own. 
  
 Last year, Harmonix launched Rock Band 3 with its revolutionary new Pro  Guitar modes. Marrying the reward-based gameplay of the Rock Band franchise with play that mirrored playing a real six-string guitar,  the developer managed to create a teaching tool that also happened to be a fun videogame.  This year, Fender released a six-string Squier designed specifically for use with for Rock Band 3 -- an amalgamation of a real guitar and a videogame controller. 
  
 A few weeks back, Harmonix sent me the guitar to try out. While it’s not  the only way to learn to play and maybe not even the best, it’s  certainly the most fun, and the most authentic guitar experience on any console to date.

  
 The first thing you notice about the Fender Squier Guitar and Controller  out of the box is that, yes, it’s both a guitar and a controller. The  thing is bigger and has more weight than any guitar peripheral that has  come before it. Detractors of the peripheral-based music games have  always called the plastic instruments “toys,” and in comparison to a  real guitar, that’s not entirely unfair. While the standard guitar  controller did a great job of getting folks accustomed to how to hold a  guitar and the association between pressing a fret and strumming,  there’s really nothing like the real thing. That’s exactly what the  Squier is: the real thing. 
  
 This is a full-size guitar with six real guitar strings, based off of  Fender’s Squier series of guitars. It can be played as a real guitar  through a standard guitar amplifier, used to play Rock Band 3 Pro Modes  using the MIDI adapter (sold separately), and even used as a MIDI  instrument if you have the appropriate equipment. 
  
 As an all-in-one package, it’s an absolutely spectacular piece of  hardware, and how it interfaces with the Rock Band game is just as impressive. As  a standalone guitar, you should know what you’re getting, and that’s an  introductory-level guitar. It’s based off of Fender’s Squier Stratocaster series, one of the cheapest available in the company’s  broad line of six-string instruments. What that means is that this is  not the guitar you’re going to want to take on the road with you when  you land that first big (or small, more likely) gig. 
  
 Even with that in mind, as a beginner’s instrument -- and that’s what  you’re paying for, to be clear -- it’s perfect. The guitar itself only  features one pickup and no real way to alter its tone, so your sound  options are limited. I also found that keeping the instrument in tune  was a bit of a struggle; I seemingly had to readjust the tuning every  time I picked it up. As an inexpensive starter instrument, the Squier  guitar controller is ideal; for the price, you'd likely be dealing with  similar issues on a standard guitar anyhow.

  
 Where the instrument really shines is as a learning tool when matched  with the Rock Band software. Alone, the Squier has no way to talk to  your game console, so you’re going to need the Mad Catz MIDI Pro  Adapter, sold separately. It’s a bit disappointing that after spending  nearly $300 on the Squier, you’ll have to shell out another $40 just  to use it with the Rock Band game, but what are you going to do? 
  
 The setup is fairly straightforward, but certainly more complicated than  pressing a single button and linking it to your console. The Squier gets  connected to the MIDI adapter, and then the MIDI adapter gets connected to  your console of choice (in my case, the Xbox 360). It’s not a huge  hassle, but the extra cords lying around your living room aren’t the  prettiest sight, and your cat might get tangled up in it and choke or something.
The controller also features a full set of buttons, along with a D-pad for menu navigation. However, when using the instrument with an  Xbox 360, those buttons are just for show -- you’ll need to use the MIDI  adapter to navigate all menus. (This has something to with Microsoft’s  wild and crazy Xbox 360 controller standards; Harmonix’s and Fender’s  hands were tied on this one, I’d imagine.) While it’s possible to use  your toes if you have foot dexterity and want to play standing up, I  found it more comfortable to the MIDI controller on my lap within arm's reach. This  is particularly helpful when you’re using the guitar to play through the  extensive tutorials, as that requires frequent navigation.

  
 Those gripes aside, the Squier guitar controller is absolutely the best  way to play along with Rock Band 3 ’s Pro Modes. While the Fender Mustang  PRO controller does a reasonably good job of mimicking a real  instrument, with its 102 buttons and “real strings” for strumming,  there’s nothing quite like the real thing. The feeling of actual strings  beneath your fingers as you form chords and hit notes is absolutely  essential, as are the resulting calluses that a beginner (or someone who  isn’t in playing shape, like myself) is sure to get. 
  
 I found that in both strumming and fretting, the guitar and game were  able to communicate quickly enough with one another that I never felt as if I were being  “cheated” out of notes. On the contrary, playing along with the game’s  songs made me realize how sloppy of a player I actually am. Rock Band 3 and the Squier demand perfection; the instrument should  come with a ruler so you can whack yourself on the knuckles when you  miss notes.
The game simply is not kidding around -- it requires perfect fret  placement on every note and exact strumming for every rhythm. Learning  on your own or even with an instructor at your side, you’d find that  you’d be able to hit “imperfectly placed” notes that would still ring  and sound just fine. Rock Band 3 and the Squier don’t want to hear any  of that noise; they want to make you a perfect guitar-playing machine. 
  
 The guitar has two “modes” -- one for when you’re playing through an  amp, and one for playing with the game. It’s as simple as pushing in or  raising the small pop-up string mute that dampens the the strings when  playing the game. This allows for the game to more accurately detect  notes that are being strummed; without it, the sounds ring out and  the game tends to get confused, causing you to “miss” notes.

  
 With the mute on, strumming along lets out a pretty loud and somewhat  unpleasant chugging noise. I personally found it distracting, and would  recommend playing along with a pair of headphones. It is possible to  play along with the game with the mute off; I found this easier to do,  as I generally play along by ear, and was able to correct wrong fingering more quickly. However, don’t expect to get in-game high scores --  without the mute on, you’re destined to have the game dock you for  missing notes, even if you’re Joe Satriani or that one guy who plays nine guitars at once. 
  
 Musicians know that playing an instrument can be a rush like no other,  but it’s all of that learning between them and the live performance  that gets in the way. The general rule, whether it applies to  everyone and everything or not, is that learning isn’t very much fun.  It’s about tedium, rules, patience, and hours of practice. What’s absolutely  most impressive about the Rock Band 3 /Squier combination is that it  turns this idea on its head. Harmonix has done an absolutely brilliant  job of bridging the gap between gameplay and learning with its Pro  Modes. 
  
 I had the opportunity to see the potential of the guitar in action when I  gently nudged my wife -- someone who had never played a guitar in her  life -- to give it a shot. I watched as she bit her lip in frustration  trying to form chords and nail scales for a few hours. But when it  clicked, it really clicked -- she was playing basic chords within a few  days of playing. It really dawned on me how powerful of a tool it could  be when I walked into our bedroom to find her playing a Bruce  Springsteen song (which she managed to learn on her own, unprompted) on  our acoustic guitar. This was only one week after I had first put a Pro  guitar in her hand, mind you. 
  
 The software and hardware have their limits; the game doesn’t account for  many intricacies of playing you’ll have to pick up on your own. It’s not  a substitute for professional lessons by any stretch. But if they made  tricycles with 20-inch rims that looked like they were straight out of a  Lil’ Wayne video, the Squier/ Rock Band 3 combo would be their musical  equivalent.

  
 If you’re at all interested in learning guitar but haven’t known where  to start, I can’t recommend Rock Band 3 ’s Pro Mode enough. It’s the  perfect jumping off point for beginners, using a basic gaming language  you likely already understand. Of course, the big consideration is price --  the 102-button Fender Mustang controller is going to run you a little  over $100; the Squier plus the required MIDI adapter means over $300 out  of pocket. 
  
 If you’re serious about embracing what the Pro Mode has to offer,  despite its cost, the Squier is your better bet of the two options. The  Mustang is a good approximation, but it’s still a controller at the end  of the day. Getting your fingers on authentic strings is essential to the  playing experience, calluses and all. There’s also something to be said  about being able to immediately start strumming out a song  “for real” by simply un-muting the strings as you sit in front of the  game. That almost immediate sense of accomplishment, and seeing true progress,  will definitely go a long way in pushing beginner musicians through  early frustrations. 
  
 Taking that first leap into learning an instrument can be expensive,  scary, and sometimes discouraging. Admittedly, that also describes the  price tag of the Squier, plus all of the additional equipment (a console,  MIDI adapters, the game) you’ll need to get started. But when you  compare it to the price of professional lessons and the purchase of a  standalone instrument, the value becomes that much clearer.
There are a  lot of avenues for learning to play guitar, but there are few that are  as enjoyable as this.