The history of fighting games on handhelds has been checkered at best. Whether it’s the form factor of the platform, making for difficult and uncomfortable controls, or a sloppy port, no one has gotten it quite right. That changes with Super Street Fighter IV 3D Edition for the Nintendo 3DS. 
 
 Capcom has not only successfully ported its popular fighter over to Nintendo’s handheld, but has managed to pack in even more content than its bigger console cousins. It may not be the best platform to play the fighter on, but it’s certainly the best gamers have ever seen when it comes to getting your fighting fix on the go.

Super Street Fighter IV 3D Edition (3DS) 
 Developer: Capcom 
 Publisher: Capcom 
 Release date: March 27, 2011 
 Price: $39.99
Most shocking about 3D Edition is that this isn’t a dumbed down handheld  port. It is, in nearly every way, the same Super Street Fighter IV experience you already get on consoles. All 35 characters are  represented, each playable with their full move sets, just as you’re  already familiar with. All of the modes you’d expect are accounted for,  too. From the standard “Arcade” mode to the standalone training room and  character-specific challenge trials, it’s all here. 
  
 We’ve already covered and reviewed Super Street Fighter IV , and seeing  as how 3D Edition ’s gameplay is basically identical, there’s no need to  retread old ground. Long story short, it’s great. Very little, if  anything, is lost in the translation. That’s thanks in part to the 3DS’  form factor, as well as some clever (yet likely to be controversial)  decisions on Capcom’s part. 
  
 The game can be played using the 3DS d-pad or the circle pad, both of  which are viable options when it comes to pulling off consistent Burning  Kicks with C. Viper or Shoryukens with Ryu. The handheld itself is a  bit on the small side, which I found led to some cramped hands  initially, but I found myself adapting to it pretty quickly. You’re not  going to want to trade in your fight pads or sticks in favor of the 3DS  setup, of course, but it feels surprisingly responsive in the heat of  battle.

  
 Capcom has also decided to utilize the touch screen for one-touch  (with your finger or stylus) special moves -- four at any given time -- including Ultra and Super  Combos. While Capcom will display four moves of its choice by default,  those buttons can be altered for each and every one of the 35 characters,  giving you a ridiculous amount of customization. While purists may groan  at the concept, it’s actually a brilliant move on Capcom’s part. 
  
 For starters, the barrier for entry and player enjoyment has just been  significantly lowered. For fighting novices, the worst part is  struggling to pull off what most of us consider the most basic movements  in the genre. While saying "do a fireball motion" to most gamers is  equivalent to telling a magician to pull a quarter out of his ear, don’t  take it for granted that everyone knows what that means… or could even  pull it off. Assume for a second that 3D Edition may be many gamers'  first foray into the world of Street Fighte r, and one-touch controls  seem that much more attractive. Will it prevent some players from  bothering to learn the proper movements? Maybe, and they’ll likely never  get to the point of being a pro. But they’ll sure as hell have more  fun, and that’s pretty important, isn’t it? 
  
 As someone who can pull of all of the game’s special moves using button  and control movements, I have to admit I did find myself using the  one-button attacks as a matter of convenience. It didn’t ruin the  enjoyment of the fights for me, but your mileage may vary. For those who  don’t want to use the one-button attacks, instead wanting to remain  “pure,” you’re welcome to do that as well. Capcom has given players the  option to use the touch screen panels as additional buttons, similar to  what you might find on a standard controller. For instance, all three  kick buttons can be mapped to a panel, if you wish.

  
  3D Edition also features a full set of online modes, including “Fight  Requests” in arcade mode where a real life incoming challenger could hop  in fight you at any moment. Considering the game hasn’t hit North  America yet, I was only able to play a handful of Internet battles, many  of them against Japanese players. Keeping in mind the distance been me  and my opponent, I found there was considerable lag, although it wasn’t  completely unplayable. Of the small number of matches I played with  folks within the United States, I found the fights to be significantly  more enjoyable, although it wasn’t as smooth as I had hoped it would be.  Other players have reported silky online play experiences, so I have no reason to  suspect my issues were anything other than connection-related. 
  
 Capcom has also included a bonus 3DS-specific feature with its “Figure  Collection” mode where you’ll collect tiny bottle cap figurines  of the game’s combatants. Not just for show, you can assemble a team of  fighters to battle against other players you “meet” using the 3DS  “StreetPass” mode. You’ll have the ability to level up your figures,  as well as apply various attributes to them that will be passively calculated-in   by the 3DS when battling. 
  
 Given that the game and the handheld isn’t on shelves at the time of  this review, there was no way for me to try this feature out.  Destructoid’s Dale North spent some time with his 3DS in Tokyo, and  really enjoyed the StreetPass Battles. 
  
 “It’s like an extra social game for every game you own,” Dale said of  the StreetPass mini games found in 3D Edition and Nintendo’s own nintendogs + cats . “They’re not deep experiences, but they’re definitely  fun.”

  
 3D Edition is also one of the most visually impressive titles I’ve  played of the small selection of launch games. Street Fighter IV’ s hand  drawn art style looks spectacular on the small screen, with smooth  animation that moves at a nice clip. The game’s environments take a  small hit, but it’s hardly noticeable in battle.
As for the “3D” bit,  like many launch games, it’s a neat feature but doesn’t add all that  much to gameplay. Capcom has added the option of playing (or watching  battles) in a “Dynamic View,” an over-the-shoulder camera perspective;  it’s not the easiest view to play in, but it really does make the 3D pop  quite nicely. 3D Edition is also one of the few games that still looked  good (i.e., not a completely blurry, double-vision mess) to me with the  3D slider bumped all the way up. 
 
Super Street Fighter IV 3D Edition is really the total portable fighting package. In terms  of what Capcom has been able to pack onto the tiny 3DS cart, it  effortlessly stands toe-to-toe with its console efforts. In fact, when  you factor in the game’s StreetPass capabilities and the fact that you  can battle random Internet strangers while sitting on the toilet, 3D  Edition may even have the edge.
While the tiny screen and the sometimes  cramped controls may keep it from being tournament ready, Super Street Fighter IV 3D Edition easily  one of the best titles the 3DS launch has to offer. 
  
 Oh, and it has badass 3D lenticular cover art to boot.