The instant I saw The Whispered World I knew it was one of those games that I was going to have to play. I'm a  sucker for point-and-click adventures, and the promise of hand-drawn  animations and backgrounds sucked me in like none other. Plus, with the  likes of Sam & Max and Monkey Island moving into 3D  and episodic releases seeing a game that just looked so terribly old-school excited me like none other.
The  game began as a one-man graduation project, went through a developer and  an attempt at freeware until finally being picked up by Daedalic  Entertainment. It's had a bumpy road, but it launched two weeks ago, and after struggling to get my  disgustingly slow computer to run it, I have played through it. Does The  Whispered World hold up to its promise and join the ranks of  classic 2D adventure gaming or is something lost despite the clear  passion and love for the genre that the game exudes? Reading on will  help you answer that question.

The Whispered World (PC) 
 Developer: Daedalic Entertainment 
 Publisher: Viva Media 
 Released: April  28, 2010 
 MSRP:   $29.99
One of  the things I love about the point-and-click adventure genre is that it is one of  the few genres where story plays an as important, if not more important,  role than gameplay. Really the gameplay boils down to pointing and then  clicking (thus making the genre really aptly named), so what stands out  is the story and the writing. You can find obscure and random puzzles in  a million different games and combining random objects until one works  with another isn't really a "challenge" per se. What matters the most is the story  and the characters and having good enough motivation to continue with  your pointing and clicking.
So let us  start with the story of The Whispered World . The player takes on the role of 12-year-old  Sadwick the clown in a mystical land. Sadwick is depressed and feels  like an outcast in all that he does. His family, consisting of his  brother and grandfather, are circus folk and they have just stopped to  set up shop when the story begins. Sadwick and his pet caterpillar Spot  venture out to find people to enjoy the show, but they bump into a skinny  messenger called a Chaski. After some tricky talk Sadwick ends up with an important  artifact called the Whispering Stone, and must get it to the King in  the city of Corona in order to save the world. However, after a prophecy is told to  Sadwick it turns out that he might actually be headed to destroy the  world. As such the game starts out pretty intriguing, and despite the fact that Sadwick is told he will destroy the world he ventures forth in an attempt to  save it.

As far as stories go this one  is actually pretty well constructed, until the end when it does start  to fall apart a bit. It's an interesting twist that the quest you are on  has been foretold to destroy the world, but Sadwick continues to hope  that his actions will actually save it. Sadly, Sadwick doesn't quite live up to the story he's been put into. While his incessant whining works at some points  at others it just gets really annoying. Almost everything he comments  on has something to do with how hard his life is, and it makes for a few  good punchlines, but by the end of the game it has just gotten old.
Luckily most of the characters around  Sadwick  are far more entertaining and creatively designed. From a pair of  talking rocks to a pint-sized conductor, the characters that Sadwick  meets along his journey are both creative and funny. I probably had the  most fun during the game just working through branching dialogs to see  what characters would say. Some of the writing is fantastically clever and I  caught myself laughing out loud on numerous occasions. It isn't just funny  writing either. The story skips along at a great pace, and while  characters might ramble on here and there you can always click the mouse  to skip over their talk if you're getting really bored.
You also might  skip a bit because the voice acting is all over the place. Some of it  really works and other parts are just bad. Sadwick himself seems to vary  here and there, and before you get use to his voice it can be really  aggravating. Still, it is worth your time to get use to the voice, and  putting up with bad voice acting in an adventure game from a small  developer is nothing new.

It's  clear that the game's creators had a great world in mind, even if it  does seem a bit stretched here and there. Sadly, some of the more  serious sides of the game don't always feel like they fit in with the  rest of the world. An overall theme about stagnation and lack of  progress has fits of genius, but mostly gets clouded behind the game's  comedic angles. In the end, though, the charming characters and evolving  world win over the story and writing's flaws, pressing you further into  the game easily.
When I was  introducing the game's story above I described almost the entire first chapter of the  game really (late spoiler warning, I suppose). The game as a whole is broken up into four chapters with each chapter being a sort of massive contained puzzle in itself. You lose your items at the beginning of each chapter and have to start from scratch. In  total and takes around 20-25 hours to complete depending on your ability  to figure out the warped logic of point-and-click adventure game's  puzzles. Most of the story is told in-game, with a few animated  sequences filling in gaps between chapters. Each world is divided up  into different locations, and you, of course, travel them by clicking  around the screen. It's all extremely old-school in its gameplay. It's  easy to pick up a classic LucasArts' game vibe the second you start the  game. Even if The Whispered World doesn't live up to most of  those classics, the feeling is definitely there and it's one that is  becoming harder and harder to come by.
One  of the reasons that feeling is so strong is the gorgeous 2D  scenes/settings that the game takes place in. Every time you enter a new  area it seems that the artists have outdone themselves (though some  character animation quality varies). It was almost a joy  at times to be clicking desperately around the screen trying to find the  objects I needed because it meant I got to examine the details of  every hand painted background. The characters of the world almost seem  to not live up to the quality of the world they are in, and until you  get use to seeing what is a decidedly retro style of animation moving  around they seem almost out of place. However, once you get use to  the animation you realize they couldn't fit better. I would liken it to an early Disney cartoon like Snow White .

I  suppose that discussing the gameplay might be important. It is mostly  what you expect from a game in the genre, though the addition of Spot  adds a bit of a twist. Spot can change forms (regular, heavy, fire, multiple balls, flat) and thus can be used to solve many of the world's  puzzles. Far from just a replacement for more items however, Spot's  changing ability actually creates some great puzzles that wouldn't be  possible in most adventure games. The puzzles themselves bend logic to  their own will (at one point you milk a cow that drank your oil and  the oil comes out its udders) and can be increasingly aggravating in  their misguided logic. However, that is pretty par for the course in  games such as these,and the game routinely pokes fun and its own backasswards logic so I find it hard to find fault there. In fact I  think it makes it feel all the more like a classic point-and-click  adventure even if it forced me to use the walkthrough sent along with  the game.
One minor gripe I have  with the gameplay is actually another standard from classic games in the  genre. Yet again too much depends on you finding a random item that is  far to obscure in the scenery to ever be found by any other means than  random clicking. I remember this always aggravating me back in the day,  and it's no better now, especially when I know it can be done better.  Adventure games should always lead you into things a bit with quality  level design and possibly a hint or two. The Whispered World doesn't do this quite enough and you'll find it aggravating when you  have no idea what to do. Then again, maybe I just suck at videogames.
I'd like to conclude by asking you to not take the score below as an indication that this game is bad. As  it says right there, a 7.5 is good, and The Whispered World is a  good game. While it has its problems here and there, many of which stem  from the fact that it's produced by a small publisher, it is in fact a  good point-and-click adventure at a very solid price. If you're a fan of the genre you are sure to have fun by picking this up, and if you're not one  this would be a perfectly fine introduction. This isn't game of the year  material here, but it is an enjoyable and solid little game.
Score: 7.5 -- Good ( 7s are solid games that definitely have an  audience. Might lack replay value, could be too short or there are some  hard-to-ignore faults, but the experience is fun. )