Helicopters are complex, unwieldy machines. In games, their  difficulties are either flat-out ignored ( Twin Cobra ) or make for one of  the steepest learning curves you’ll ever face ( Battlefield 2 ). Under  Defeat is a balancing act that exists between these two extremes. It  controls unlike any other shoot-em-up on consoles, but that may not be a  good thing, depending on your preference. 
 
 One thing is for certain, you’ll need to earn your piloting license to fly in these very, very unfriendly skies.

 
 Under Defeat HD: Deluxe Edition (PlayStation 3) 
 Developer: G.Rev. 
 Publisher: Rising Star Games 
 Release: November 27, 2012 (retail), December 4, 2012 (PSN) 
 MSRP: $29.99 
 
 In alternate history of World War II, Under Defeat lets players control Nazi pilots who conquer the Western Allies -- albeit, this US release of the game removes some of the more obvious connections to the Nazi party. Under Defeat was released onto the Dreamcast in 2006, one year into what we once called “next-gen”. And yet, neither of these things is what makes Under Defeat such an oddity in its genre. Rather, it’s Under Defeat ’s obtuse controls that make it a standout title. 
 
 In its original arcade release, Under Defeat is played with a joystick and two buttons. The helicopter scroll up and down, a bit slower than in other shooters but those typically feature jets. The kicker is that going left and right changes the angle of the helicopter. You hold fire to lock into an angle, allowing you to diagonally shoot enemies from afar. This sounds simple but successfully dodging while providing fire is one hell of a challenge, even in the game’s opening stage. You could lock into a traditional forward facing position at all times, but Under Defeat encourages working the angles since that’s where enemies often come from.
jEmbed JS API   VIDEO PLAYER 

 
 These options are pretty finicky with picking a target, so you’ll have to position them in front of an enemy. If they don’t have a target to shoot, they won’t be of much help. Flying your ship in the direction of an enemy, sending an option their way, quickly piloting across the screen, and then flanking is something you’ll do a lot in Under Defeat and it’s pretty awesome. What’s not awesome is doing this with the dual stick option, since the direction of the option isn’t dictated by the right stick (gun fire) but the left stick (movement). It’s a silly thing to overlook. 
 
 Under Defeat HD brings the Japanese cult hit to 16:9 ratio with higher polygon models and a remixed soundtrack. G. Rev did a fantastic job in not changing the feel of the game while providing more space to traverse. I wish the original score were an option in this New Order mode, but the remixes aren’t bad at all. This new coat of paint isn’t enough to prevent Under Defeat from being its same, old drab self. I know its a military shooter and all, but couldn’t have G.Rev put some more personality and color into these stages? This is a difficult game which means you’ll be seeing the same areas a lot. I grew so tired of them and I bet you will, too.

 
 As with Akai Katana , Rising Star Games has published a quality shoot-em-up on consoles with stellar packaging. Unlike Akai Katana , Under Defeat is no instant classic and it doesn’t feel well suited for a controller. It’s also a much slower and cheaper game, full of gotcha bosses and enemy attacks that make me pine for Cave’s bullet hell -- at least I can see the hurt that is coming my way. There is also the problem of gun fire blending too easily with explosions and there are always explosions in Under Defeat . 
 
 Warts and all, Under Defeat is a capable, unique shoot-em-up given new life in this HD update. Its ridiculous controls will divide players, forming a hate-love relationship with the game. Under Defeat feels like trying to rub your stomach and pat your head at the same time. It’s a fun, awkward exercise that some may grow tired of all too soon.