  UK REVIEW--The prospect of Street Cleaning Simulator may not sound  appealing, but there's merit in simulation games. It's not possible to try  out every job in the world, and for many of us, these games are the only way  we'll get to try our hand at farming, surgery, traffic management, or, in  this case, street cleaning. The main problem with this game isn't that it's  a simulation in which you vacuum up filth from the side of the road; it's  that it's a really, really poor game. From the lack of variety to the  laughable physics and bizarre AI behaviour, Street Cleaning Simulator could  only be considered a simulator in a world where the rules of gravity don't  apply, where people melt through the pavement, and where street cleaners  walk with an awkward swagger that would put Saturday Night Fever-era  Travolta to shame. In short, it's awful.  
 The road is  long, and it's extremely boring. 
  Street Cleaning Simulator starts off with the promise of many streets to  clean. As the owner of a newly established street cleaning business, it's  your job to tidy up the city. It's impossible to tell who cleaned up before  you arrived; there's no narrative progression, and one can only assume the  filth was just left to accumulate because there aren't any other rival  street cleaners in the vicinity. So you've got your office (which is really just  an email interface to accept jobs from the mayor, motorway services, and  occasionally, mysterious businessmen), and you've got a great big orange  street sweeper. This truck forms the crux of the simulation, and the  attention to detail is worth noting. Everything can be manipulated, from  each individual brush to the interior cab light and the windshield wipers.  The truck needs refuelling, refilling with water, and emptying whenever too  much litter is collected. A brief tutorial explains most of what you need to  know, and at first, it may seem rather complicated. It's fine though,  because after a mission or two, you soon realise that almost all you ever  need to do is drive somewhere and position the brushes.  
  There are three different sweepers; your starter truck and two that can be  purchased after prescribed points in the campaign. The second sweeper has  blue brushes and an undercarriage roller (which is pretty much useless), and  the third sweeper increases your speed, fuel, water, and dirt capacity. But  it doesn't do so by much, and you still end up crawling around the city at a  snail's pace, heading to the next identical mission. On the plus side,  they're all as  nicely-crafted as the starting vehicle, with all the  realistic vehicle parts you'd ever need. It's all well and good having  indicators, a horn, and a handbrake, but the fact that you never have to  obey traffic laws makes them obsolete. In fact, it's downright impossible to  obey the traffic laws. After a mission or two, you inevitably give up on  waiting at red lights only to cut through traffic, as well as drive through  scenery and pedestrians, to provide the shortest time possible between the  mission start and the slow, boring task ahead.  
 The city  looks better at night; maybe because you can't see it as  well. 
  The problem with trying to obey the traffic laws is that the other cars  don't. You might be patiently waiting at a red light when out of nowhere a  deranged driver in a Vauxhall Corsa crashes into you, after pinging off a  few dozen other cars. If you're lucky, this causes your street sweeper to  grind to a halt. There's no realistic collision detection here. More often  than not, though, you and the other vehicle both go flying into the sky.  It's hard to believe that in the field of actual street cleaning, the  sweepers can bounce 40 feet into the air before landing on their side,  clipping through the road a bit and then righting themselves. Often, while  making your way to a filthy road, you can spy two cars in the distance,  bouncing up and down on the spot like motorised space hoppers and then  sinking into the floor, never to be seen again. Pedestrians are just as  incomprehensible. If you drive into them, they disappear. Much like the  cars, they also frequently sink into the floor or walk through flat,  untextured walls. If this were a survival horror game then it might even be  creepy. But it's not. It's a street cleaning simulator.  

  So what of the street cleaning itself? Missions range from "clean up some  sand from the gutter" to "clean up some grass from the gutter" by way of  "clean up some gravel from the gutter." This cleanup is achieved by driving  really, really slowly in a mostly straight line. As soon as you've worked  out whether a mission requires water or not (clue: the mayor tells you),  it's down to business; drive to a location marked on the map, position the  brush, crawl along really slowly. Occasionally, but not often, you get the  chance to go off road and clean up sand, grass, or gravel from a pavement.  These sections are more taxing because they require you to make a few turns  and reverse occasionally. Missions play out to the sound of spinning brushes  and revving engines. Sometimes, when you have to reverse, the sweeper makes  a beeping sound. This is as exciting as it gets. Some missions are timed,  although the shortest limit is one hour (real time), and occasionally, the  timer just fails to count down at all. These shots at building tension are  so far off the mark that it's unreal.  
 A shot of the "action." 
  As the game progresses, missions are made more difficult by being placed  farther away from your depot. They're the exact same missions, but they just  take longer to get to, which means that for the first time, you have to pay  slight attention to your fuel gauge. Sometimes, there's too much to clean up  and you can't fit all the detritus in your dirt trap. When this happens, you  can either return to the depot and cash the job in for a slight pay  decrease, or you can drive to the depot, empty the trap, and then drive back  for the rest of the muck. Jobs take about half an hour to finish. There's no  option to save mid-mission. The game isn't adverse to crashing. Clearly,  there's a problem here.  
  The most exciting moment in the game occurs in the final level, when the  mayor assigns you to clean up a mess that resembles a mixture of blood,  vomit, and soot following a New Year's Eve party. It's the only mission that  doesn't follow the exact same formula, and that's only because the stuff  you're cleaning up is red. It's worth $10,000, almost one-third of the total  money you need to earn, but by this point, you won't care. After beating the  final level, you're awarded a medal based on your overall company worth and  then plunked back into the gameworld, with the suggestion that you might  want to explore. There's nothing to do other than look at bouncing cars and  smile slightly when a few pedestrians accidentally re-create the Abbey  Road cover. Driving around in the painfully slow sweeper is an  unappealing prospect at the best of times, and when you're not even earning  money for doing so, there's literally no reason to continue playing unless  you really love street sweepers. You could always take to the streets  on foot, but that's even slower and more pointless than in a vehicle.  
  It's something of a relief that Street Cleaning Simulator is fairly easy to  play and doesn't last very long. Once you learn to ignore the multitude of  useless options, it's entirely possible to complete every mission by tapping  the up arrow for half an hour and occasionally steering a bit. This leaves  one hand free to read a book, eat a sandwich, or face-palm yourself  repeatedly. And sometimes it's amusing to rotate the camera and look at the  huge traffic jam your street cleaning has caused. It's also not horrifically  ugly--the street sweepers don't look bad--and the reflective surfaces on the  windshield interiors are pretty cool. The flat, lifeless city leaves a lot  to be desired though, and given how slow the game is, you have plenty  of time to look at it. There's a weird attention to detail if you search  hard enough, such as gumball machines attached to walls and differing shop  fronts. But given that the city is as filthy as its roads, there's no reason  to check it out.  
  Missions  play out to the sound of spinning brushes. 
  If it weren't such a slog, Street Cleaning Simulator might be good for the  amusement factor, but driving along a curb really slowly is no laughing  matter. Even if you absolutely, positively have to play a street cleaning  simulation, then this broken mess will disappoint. There's no incentive to  play through once, let alone twice. Missing the gold medal by $1,000 hardly  encourages you to go through the entire thing again. There are numerous  simulator games that do their subject matter justice. This isn't one of  them. Maybe one day, someone will make a road sweeping simulation that  accurately portrays the noble art. Street Cleaning Simulator is not that  game; this inadequate, failed attempt is good for nothing but the garbage  heap.  