  When a game is made for mobile platforms, it often gets ported onto a number of different systems, and sometimes there's no telling how it will play on your handset. For instance, Zombie Infection is a deep, interesting game with nice graphics and a unique story. However, played on a Blackberry Storm2, it devolves into an unplayable mess.  
 You control three survivors as they struggle to uncover the truth about a pandemic. 
  The problem stems from having too many zombies on the screen at once. In some of the game's more-populated levels, like a television studio, the action slows to a crawl, and the frame rate becomes so choppy that the game will barely respond to your input.  
  It's especially frustrating because the game seems like a lot of fun otherwise. Zombie Infection tells a clever story about three survivors who work for a television show that documents current events. Through a complex series of missions, you take control of these characters, one of whom forgoes firearms to deal death with a katana and throwing knives instead. You can even save up your points from killing zombies and spend them on more weapons, ammo, or health at save stations around the city.  
  In addition to solving puzzles by locating and combining items, you'll blast away as part of the game's clever timing-based fighting system. When you point your gun at a zombie, a targeting reticle will dance over the monster. You have to press the action button right when the reticle is hanging over your enemy's head for a one-shot kill. Ammo is limited and expensive to buy, so you have to make every shot count.  
 The game's frame rate drops significantly whenever there are more than a few zombies onscreen. 
  Zombie Infection has some interesting ideas, but the final execution on a Storm2 is painful to play. A few great boss battles against a giant spider and a lizard monster are not enough to make up for the fact that this game barely runs at all, let alone at an enjoyable pace.  
 This review was provided by GameSpot mobile content partner SlideToPlay.com. 